genxword-gtk
Genxword-gtk is a crossword generator, which produces pdf (A4 or letter size) versions of the grid and clues, or png / svg versions of the crossword grid, together with a text file containing the words and clues.
The word list that is used to create the crossword is also saved as a text file.

To go back to the main view, click on F1.

New word list
You can create a new word list by clicking on the 'New word list' button, or by pressing Control + N. The word list can be just a list of words, like this:

parrot
spam
vikings

or it can be a list or words and clues, like this:

excalibur A sword that a moistened bint lobbed at Arthur.
duck An animal that weighs the same as a witch.
coconut A fruit that possibly migrates.

As you can see, each word needs to be on a separate line, and there should be a space between each word and its clue. The clue is everything after the first space.
If you want to edit the word list more after you have calculated the crossword, you can return to this word list by clicking on the 'new' button again. The word list will be kept in memory until the crossword is saved.

Open word list
Clicking the 'Open word list' button, or pressing Control + O, lets you open, and edit, a word list, which needs to be formatted as written above. The word list can be thousands of words long, and the crossword will be created with a set amount of words randomly selected from it. You can select the number of words in the box below.

Calculate - create the crossword
Click on the 'Create crossword' button, or press Control + G, to create the crossword. If you click on it a second time, the crossword will be recalculated.

Recalculate - increase the grid size and recalculate
Clicking on this button, or pressing Control + R, increases the grid size before recalculating the crossword.

Save - save the crossword
This button, or Control + S, lets you choose where you save the crossword files.

Further options
You can save the crossword in pdf, png and / or svg format. Just click on the appropriate entries in the 'Save options' menu.
On the bottom row of this window, there are boxes in which you can write the name of the crossword, choose the number of words used, and choose the grid size. To change the grid size, you will need to enable this option in the 'Crossword' menu first (normally, the grid size will be automatically calculated based on the number of words used). The numbers in the grid size box refer to the number of rows and columns, and they need to be separated by a comma.
